# community-action-project
Community Action application.  I've put together some preliminary ideas about a new application that would support community action to improve the environment.  Here is the idea...called 'Citizen Science Action.  The idea is to use science and action to improve the environment in some meaningful and measurable way.  The site would host particular actions that individuals or groups take and each project would have a set of fields that need to be completed.  Actions can be posted as V1.0 and then if further work is done, the version upgrades.  In some way, the description of the actions are like GitHub meaning you can go back in time to see how the project has evolved over time if there are updates.  Applications include photos, videos and text used to describe the project.  The projects are submitted and a panel of editors review the projects before publication to ensure they match the very broad goals of the site.  If they do not, the editor could give some advice.  Once a project is submitted, the public can provide feedback and every so often (say quarterly), awards are given for projects and applicants accure tokens that they can give to other people or use to get prizes.  I'm currently thinking that adults pay $5 per project to apply for publication and students can get their entry waived through their school - schools are given free entries for their students.  In addition to prizes, projects can be elible for badges for high-quality impact entries.  The required fields includes 'environmental benefit.  Here is a case study for a project that could be submitted:  Problem:  No safe way exists at present to cross el camino real via bike at Castro st, and this is especially problematic for middle school students going to Grahan Middle school, and unfortunatley, last year a middle school student was killed commuting to school along el camino real.  (Diagram of the intersection + photos).  Action:  V1.0:  The following actions were taken to remedy the situation.  1) I spoke to two city council members about the situation to advocate for the solution.  They both agreed we should add it to the city master plan, but agreed it could take a while.  2) I spoke to the City of MV staff in the bike division and they told me a council member voted against a proposed solution here and that maybe we should try again after advocating more strongly with A and B council member.  3) I asked a reporter from the MV Voice to write an article about how probamatic this intersection has been for bikes and invite the reporter to ride with me through the intersection. 4) Ask SVBC to propose an interium solution and then present to the City Coucil.  I've done 1 and 2 and thinking about 3 and 4.  The environmental benefit of this project includes promoting active transportation lifestyles with youth, reduced driving to campus, and various physical and mental health benefits to students and parents.  The application could serve students who use Green Ninja and they are excited about one of their projects and they want a place to share their work, b) SJSU students who do projects and want to document or publish their work, c) activists from SVBC who have 'success' stories of their advocay and want to share what they did and what they learned and d) activisits from YIMBY action who also want to share their work.  I'm sharing these possible set of contributors as a small trial to see if such a platform could be used by various contributors.  I'm curious what you think of this application idea and what questions you have for me?
